Vloginov/interactive formula recognition demo (#1796)
openvinotoolkit/open_model_zoo: demos/python_demos/formula_recognition_demo/README.md

* Target (`tgt`) - previous token (for the first time it is `START_TOKEN` )
Second model is being executed until current decoded token is `END_TOKEN` or length of the formula is less then `--max_formula_len` producing one token per each decode step.

As input, the demo application takes a path to a folder with images or a path to a single image file with a command-line argument `-i`. Another possible option is interactive mode, which will be explanined in details later.

> > **NOTE**: `--interactive` and `-i/--input` options are mutually exclusive. Please, use one of them, but not both or one of them.

Reviewer: You could do it with `-i`: if the input is a folder or an image, trigger non-interactive mode, if not and it can be opened with VideoCapture(args.input) or with VideoCapture(int(args.input)) trigger interactive mode. This will also generalize the demo and enable videos as input.

BTW:
```suggestion
> **NOTE**: `--interactive` and `-i/--input` options are mutually exclusive. Please, use one of them, but not both.
```

Author: Added interactive mode via `-i` option

### Non-interactive mode
Non-interactive mode assumes that demo processes inputs sequentially.
The demo workflow in non-interactive is the following:

1. The demo application reads a single image or iterates over all images in the given folder, then crops or resizes and inputs to fit into the input image blob of the network (`imgs`). Crop and pad is used to keep size of the font.
2. For each image, encoder extracts features from the image
3. While length of the current formula is less then `--max_formula_len` or current token is not `END_TOKEN` Decode Step produces new tokens.
5. The demo prints the decoded text in a file if `-o` parameter specified or into the console and (optionally) renders predicted formula into image.

#### Rendering of the latex formula into image
User has an option to render predicted by the demo application latex formula into image.
Regardless of what mode is selected (interactive or non-interactive) the process of the rendering of the formula is the same.
Prerequisites:
1. `sympy` python package

> 2. `tex-live` on Linux\MacOS or `miktex` on Windows. Other latex systems should also work.

Author: Added requirements files.

Second model is being executed until current decoded token is `END_TOKEN` or length of the formula is less then `--max_formula_len` producing one token per each decode step.

As input, the demo application takes a path to a folder with images or a path to a single image file with a command-line argument `-i`. Another possible option is interactive mode, which will be explanined in details later.

### Non-interactive mode
Non-interactive mode assumes that demo processes inputs sequentially.
The demo workflow in non-interactive is the following:

1. The demo application reads a single image or iterates over all images in the given folder, then crops or resizes and inputs to fit into the input image blob of the network (`imgs`). Crop and pad is used to keep size of the font.
2. For each image, encoder extracts features from the image
3. While length of the current formula is less then `--max_formula_len` or current token is not `END_TOKEN` Decode Step produces new tokens.
5. The demo prints the decoded text in a file if `-o` parameter specified or into the console and (optionally) renders predicted formula into image.

> #### Rendering of the latex formula into image

Reviewer 2: Please fix the other occurrences of "latex" as well.

> #### Rendering of the latex formula into image

Author: Fixed ;)

Regardless of what mode is selected (interactive or non-interactive) the process of the rendering of the formula is the same.
##### Requirements for rendering
Sympy python package is used for rendering. To install it, please, run:
`pip install -r requirements.txt`
Sympy package needs latex system installed in the operation system.
For Windows you can use miktex (just download and install it), for Ubuntu\MacOS you can use texlive:
Ubuntu:
`apt-get update && apt-get install texlive`
MacOS:
`brew install texlive`
> Note: Other latex systems should also work.

Rendering of the latex formula is performed with the help of `Renderer` class from [utils.py](./utils.py). This class has two interfaces:
1. `render` method is used as synchronous method. Method returns rendered image and text formula, corresponding to the rendered image when rendering is done.
2. `thread_render` provides asynchronous interface to the rendering process. In contrast with the previous method, this one returns image and formula only when rendering is complete. If rendering is incomplete at the moment of method call, method returns `None`.

> 

Author: Moved this information into methods docstrings

### Interactive mode

> Special class `InteractiveDemo` provides interface to interact with webcamera and recognize latex formulas.

Author: Updated readme

* The example of the interface:
![](./interactive_interface.png)

> When User runs demo application with the `-i` option and passes `.mp4` video or number of the web-camera device as an argument (typically 1), window with the image simillar to above should pop up.

Author: No, actually `-i` option is used in interactive mode too. This could be not obvious from readme, so I've updated the doc

> When User runs demo application with the `-i` option and passes `.mp4` video or number of the web-camera device as an argument (typically 1), window with the image simillar to above should pop up.

Reviewer 2: You've addressed 2 of my points, but what about the 3rd one?

> When User runs demo application with the `-i` option and passes `.mp4` video or number of the web-camera device as an argument (typically 1), window with the image simillar to above should pop up.

Author: If you mean
> Wouldn't it typically be 0 (meaning the first webcam)?

I've fixed this. 
What about MP4 video, I've changed a bit an algorithm on which function tries to figure out what input source is. If it is not a digit, then there would be an attempt to create a class of OpenCV's VideoCapture whatever is passed as source (video or maybe GStreamer pipeline, though I did not tested it).

> When User runs demo application with the `-i` option and passes `.mp4` video or number of the web-camera device as an argument (typically 1), window with the image simillar to above should pop up.

Reviewer 2: The point is, the documentation implies the video has to be in the MP4 format, when that is not the case - it could be anything supported by OpenCV.

> When User runs demo application with the `-i` option and passes `.mp4` video or number of the web-camera device as an argument (typically 1), window with the image simillar to above should pop up.

Author: Ok, now I've got it,. Fixed the readme.

Example of usage of the interactive mode:
```
python formula_recognition_demo.py <required args> -i 0
```
or
```
python formula_recognition_demo.py <required args> -i input_video.mp4
```

The window has four main sections:

> 1. On the center of this window is placed a red rectangle. This is input window, with the help of which User, moving the camera, can capture formula.

Author: Paraphrased this paragraph

2. Image from the 1st window will be binarized, preprocessed and fed to the network. Preprocessed and binarized image is placed on the top of the window (near `Model input` label)
3. If the formula will be predicted with sufficient confidence score, it will be placed right under preprocessed image (near `Predicted` label)
4. If rendering is available (see the previous Paragraph for details) and predicted formula does not contain latex grammar errors, it will be rendered and places near `Rendered` label.

Navigation buttons:
  * Use `q` button to quit from program
  * Use `o` (latin) to decrease the size of the input (red) window
  * Use `p` (latin) to increase the size of the input widnow

The model inference process on the image is simillar to the Non-interactive mode with the exception that model infers asynchronously.

> The phrase "Demo application works asynchronously" means, that model inference is performed in asynchronous mode and does not block main thread, so the image from the web-camera can move smoothly enough.

Author: Edited this sentence

Example of usage of the interactive mode:
```
python formula_recognition_demo.py <required args> -i 0
```
or
```
python formula_recognition_demo.py <required args> -i input_video.mp4
```

The window has four main sections:
1. A red rectangle is placed on the center of this window. This is input "target", with the help of which User, moving the camera, can capture formula.
2. Image from the input target will be binarized, preprocessed and fed to the network. Preprocessed and binarized image is placed on the top of the window (near `Model input` label)
3. If the formula will be predicted with sufficient confidence score, it will be placed right under preprocessed image (near `Predicted` label)
4. If rendering is available (see the previous Paragraph for details) and predicted formula does not contain LaTeX grammar errors, it will be rendered and placed near `Rendered` label.

Navigation keys:
  * Use `q` button to quit from program
  * Use `o` to decrease the size of the input (red) window
  * Use `p` to increase the size of the input window

The overall process is simillar to the Non-interactive mode with the exception that it runs asynchronously.

> This means model inference and rendering of the formula does not block main thread, so the image from the web-camera can move smoothly enough.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means model inference and rendering of the formula do not block main thread, so the image from the web camera can move smoothly.
```

##### Requirements for rendering
Sympy python package is used for rendering. To install it, please, run:
`pip install -r requirements.txt`
Sympy package needs latex system installed in the operating system.
For Windows you can use MiKTeX (just download and install it), for Ubuntu/MacOS you can use TeX Live:
Ubuntu:
`apt-get update && apt-get install texlive`
MacOS:
`brew install texlive`
> Note: Other latex systems should also work.

### Interactive mode
The example of the interface:
![](./interactive_interface.png)
When User runs demo application with the `-i` option and passes `.mp4` video or number of the web-camera device as an argument (typically 0), window with the image simillar to above should pop up.

Example of usage of the interactive mode:
```
python formula_recognition_demo.py <required args> -i 0
```
or
```
python formula_recognition_demo.py <required args> -i input_video.mp4
```

The window has four main sections:
1. A red rectangle is placed on the center of this window. This is input "target", with the help of which User, moving the camera, can capture formula.

> 2. Image from the input window will be binarized, preprocessed and fed to the network. Preprocessed and binarized image is placed on the top of the window (near `Model input` label)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Image from the input target will be binarized, preprocessed and fed to the network. Preprocessed and binarized image is placed on the top of the window (near `Model input` label)
```

3. If the formula will be predicted with sufficient confidence score, it will be placed right under preprocessed image (near `Predicted` label)
4. If rendering is available (see the previous Paragraph for details) and predicted formula does not contain latex grammar errors, it will be rendered and placed near `Rendered` label.

Navigation keys:
  * Use `q` button to quit from program
  * Use `o` to decrease the size of the input (red) window
  * Use `p` to increase the size of the input window

The model inference process on the image is simillar to the Non-interactive mode with the exception that model infers asynchronously.

> Demo application works asynchronously. That means that model inference is performed in asynchronous mode and does not block main thread, so the image from the web-camera can move smoothly enough.

Reviewer 2: There's a lot of repetition here:

* "model infers asynchronously"
* "demo application works asynchronously"
* "model inference is performed in asynchronous mode"

Couldn't it be simplified?

Author: Paraphrased these sentences
